---
type: long_term
source: mirror
created: '2026-05-07T08:02:50.830840+00:00'
updated: '2026-05-07T08:02:50.833840+00:00'
agent: researcher
status: active
schema_version: 1
tags:
- web_research
- external_ingest
char_count: 13052
extras:
  query: sqlite fts5 bm25
  source_count: 2
  fetched_count: 1
---

# Web Research: sqlite fts5 bm25

- query: `sqlite fts5 bm25`
- operator: `researcher`
- captured_at: `2026-05-07T08:02:50.830840+00:00`
- source_count: `2`

## Search Hits

1. [SQLite FTS5 Extension](https://sqlite.org/fts5.html)
   - snippet: 1. Overview of FTS5 FTS5 is an SQLite virtual table module that provides full-text search functionality to database applications. In their most elementary form, full-text search engines allow the user to efficiently search a large collection of documents for the subset that contain one or more instances of a search term. The search functionality provided to world wide web users by Google is ...
2. [SQLite Full-Text Search: FTS5 Virtual Tables and MA… | Coddy](https://coddy.tech/docs/sqlite/full-text-search)
   - snippet: A practical guide to SQLite full-text search with FTS5 : create virtual tables, query with MATCH, rank results with bm25 (), use prefix search and snippet/highlight.

## Source Excerpts

### Source 1: https://sqlite.org/fts5.html

- content_type: `text/html; charset=utf-8`

SQLite FTS5 Extension Small. Fast. Reliable. Choose any three. Home Menu About Documentation Download License Support Purchase Search About Documentation Download Support Purchase Search Documentation Search Changelog SQLite FTS5 Extension Table Of Contents 1. Overview of FTS5 2. Compiling and Using FTS5 2.1. Building FTS5 as part of SQLite 2.2. Building a Loadable Extension 3. Full-text Query Syntax 3.1. FTS5 Strings 3.2. FTS5 Phrases 3.3. FTS5 Prefix Queries 3.4. FTS5 Initial Token Queries 3.5. FTS5 NEAR Queries 3.6. FTS5 Column Filters 3.7. FTS5 Boolean Operators 4. FTS5 Table Creation and Initialization 4.1. The UNINDEXED column option 4.2. Prefix Indexes 4.3. Tokenizers 4.3.1. Unicode61 Tokenizer 4.3.2. Ascii Tokenizer 4.3.3. Porter Tokenizer 4.3.4. The Trigram Tokenizer 4.4. External Content and Contentless Tables 4.4.1. Contentless Tables 4.4.2. Contentless-Delete Tables 4.4.3. External Content Tables 4.4.4. External Content Table Pitfalls 4.4.4.1. Updates and Deletes on Contentless Tables 4.5. The Columnsize Option 4.6. The Detail Option 4.7. The Tokendata Option 4.8. The Locale Option 4.9. The Contentless-Unindexed Option 5. Auxiliary Functions 5.1. Built-in Auxiliary Functions 5.1.1. The bm25() function 5.1.2. The highlight() function 5.1.3. The snippet() function 5.1.4. The fts5_get_locale() function 5.1.5. The fts5_insttoken() function 5.2. Sorting by Auxiliary Function Results 6. Special INSERT Commands 6.1. The 'automerge' Configuration Option 6.2. The 'crisismerge' Configuration Option 6.3. The 'delete' Command 6.4. The 'delete-all' Command 6.5. The 'deletemerge' Configuration Option 6.6. The 'insttoken' Configuration Option 6.7. The 'integrity-check' Command 6.8. The 'merge' Command 6.9. The 'optimize' Command 6.10. The 'pgsz' Configuration Option 6.11. The 'rank' Configuration Option 6.12. The 'rebuild' Command 6.13. The 'secure-delete' Configuration Option 6.14. The 'usermerge' Configuration Option 7. Extending FTS5 7.1. Custom Tokenizers 7.1.1. Synonym Support 7.2. Custom Auxiliary Functions 7.2.1. Custom Auxiliary Functions API Overview 7.2.2. Custom Auxiliary Functions API Reference 8. The fts5vocab Virtual Table Module 9. FTS5 Data Structures 9.1. Varint Format 9.2. The FTS Index (%_idx and %_data tables) 9.2.1. The %_data Table Rowid Space 9.2.2. Structure Record Format 9.2.3. Averages Record Format 9.2.4. Segment B-Tree Format 9.2.4.1. The Key/Doclist Format 9.2.4.2. Pagination 9.2.4.3. Segment Index Format 9.2.4.4. Doclist Index Format 9.3. Document Sizes Table (%_docsize table) 9.4. The Table Contents (%_content table) 9.5. Configuration Options (%_config table) Appendix A: Comparison with FTS3/4 Application Porting Guide Changes to CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE statements Changes to SELECT statements Auxiliary Function Changes Other Issues Summary of Technical Differences 1. Overview of FTS5 FTS5 is an SQLite virtual table module that provides full-text search functionality to database applications. In their most elementary form, full-text search engines allow the user to efficiently search a large collection of documents for the subset that contain one or more instances of a search term. The search functionality provided to world wide web users by Google is, among other things, a full-text search engine, as it allows users to search for all documents on the web that contain, for example, the term "fts5". To use FTS5, the user creates an FTS5 virtual table with one or more columns. For example: CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE email USING fts5(sender, title, body); It is an error to add types, constraints or PRIMARY KEY declarations to a CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE statement used to create an FTS5 table. Once created, an FTS5 table may be populated using INSERT , UPDATE or DELETE statements like any other table. Like any other table with no PRIMARY KEY declaration, an FTS5 table has an implicit INTEGER PRIMARY KEY field named rowid. Not shown in the example above is that there are also various options that may be provided to FTS5 as part of the CREATE VIRTUAL TABLE statement to configure various aspects of the new table. These may be used to modify the way in which the FTS5 table extracts terms from documents and queries, to create extra indexes on disk to speed up prefix queries, or to create an FTS5 table that acts as an index on content stored elsewhere. Once populated, there are three ways to execute a full-text query against the contents of an FTS5 table: Using a MATCH operator in the WHERE clause of a SELECT statement, or Using an equals ("=") operator in the WHERE clause of a SELECT statement, or using the table-valued function syntax. If using the MATCH or = operators, the expression to the left of the MATCH operator is usually the name of the FTS5 table (the exception is when specifying a column-filter ). The expression on the right must be a text value specifying the term to search for. For the table-valued function syntax, the term to search for is specified as the first table argument. For example: -- Query for all rows that contain at least once instance of the term -- "fts5" (in any column). The following three queries are equivalent. SELECT * FROM email WHERE email MATCH 'fts5'; SELECT * FROM email WHERE email = 'fts5'; SELECT * FROM email('fts5'); By default, FTS5 full-text searches are case-independent. Like any other SQL query that does not contain an ORDER BY clause, the example above returns results in an arbitrary order. To sort results by relevance (most to least relevant), an ORDER BY may be added to a full-text query as follows: -- Query for all rows that contain at least once instance of the term -- "fts5" (in any column). Return results in order from best to worst -- match. SELECT * FROM email WHERE email MATCH 'fts5' ORDER BY rank; As well as the column values and rowid of a matching row, an application may use FTS5 auxiliary functions to retrieve extra information regarding the matched row. For example, an auxiliary function may be used to retrieve a copy of a column value for a matched row with all instances of the matched term surrounded by html <b></b> tags. Auxiliary functions are invoked in the same way as SQLite scalar functions , except that the name of the FTS5 table is specified as the first argument. For example: -- Query for rows that match "fts5". Return a copy of the "body" column -- of each row with the matches surrounded by <b></b> tags. SELECT highlight(email, 2, '<b>', '</b>') FROM email('fts5'); A description of the available auxiliary functions, and more details regarding configuration of the special "rank" column, are available below . Custom auxiliary functions may also be implemented in C and registered with FTS5, just as custom SQL functions may be registered with the SQLite core. As well as searching for all rows that contain a term, FTS5 allows the user to search for rows that contain: any terms that begin with a specified prefix, "phrases" - sequences of terms or prefix terms that must feature in a document for it to match the query, sets of terms, prefix terms or phrases that appear within a specified proximity of each other (these are called "NEAR queries"), or boolean combinations of any of the above. Such advanced searches are requested by providing a more complicated FTS5 query string as the text to the right of the MATCH operator (or = operator, or as the first argument to a table-valued function syntax). The full query syntax is described here . 2. Compiling and Using FTS5 2.1. Building FTS5 as part of SQLite As of version 3.9.0 (2015-10-14), FTS5 is included as part of the SQLite amalgamation . If using the canonical source tree, FTS5 is enabled by specifying the "--enable-fts5" option when running the configure script. (FTS5 is currently disabled by default for the source-tree configure script and enabled by default for the amalgamation configure script, but these defaults might change in the future.) Or, if sqlite3.c is compiled using some other build system, by arranging for the SQLITE_ENABLE_FTS5 pre-processor symbol to be defined. 2.2. Building a Loadable Extension Alternatively, FTS5 may be built as a loadable extension. The canonical FTS5 source code consists of a series of *.c and other files in the "ext/fts5" directory of the SQLite source tree. A build process reduces this to just two files - "fts5.c" and "fts5.h" - which may be used to build an SQLite loadable extension. Obtain the latest SQLite code from fossil. Create a Makefile as described in How To Compile SQLite . Build the "fts5.c" target, which also creates fts5.h. $ wget -c https://sqlite.org/src/tarball/SQLite-trunk.tgz?uuid=trunk -O SQLite-trunk.tgz .... output ... $ tar -xzf SQLite-trunk.tgz $ cd SQLite-trunk $ ./configure && make fts5.c ... lots of output ... $ ls fts5.[ch] fts5.c fts5.h The code in "fts5.c" may then be compiled into a loadable extension or statically linked into an application as described in Compiling Loadable Extensions . There are two entry points defined, both of which do the same thing: sqlite3_fts_init sqlite3_fts5_init The other file, "fts5.h", is not required to compile the FTS5 extension. It is used by applications that implement custom FTS5 tokenizers or auxiliary functions . 3. Full-text Query Syntax The following block contains a summary of the FTS query syntax in BNF form. A detailed explanation follows. <phrase> := string [*] <phrase> := <phrase> + <phrase> <neargroup> := NEAR ( <phrase> <phrase> ... [, N] ) <query> := [ [-] <colspec> :] [^] <phrase> <query> := [ [-] <colspec> :] <neargroup> <query> := [ [-] <colspec> :] ( <query> ) <query> := <query> AND <query> <query> := <query> OR <query> <query> := <query> NOT <query> <colspec> := colname <colspec> := { colname1 colname2 ... } 3.1. FTS5 Strings Within an FTS expression a string may be specified in one of two ways: By enclosing it in double quotes ("). Within a string, any embedded double quote characters may be escaped SQL-style - by adding a second double-quote character. As an FTS5 bareword that is not "AND", "OR" or "NOT" (case sensitive). An FTS5 bareword is a string of one or more consecutive characters that are all either: Non-ASCII range characters (i.e. unicode codepoints greater than 127), or One of the 52 upper and lower case ASCII characters, or One of the 10 decimal digit ASCII characters, or The underscore character (unicode codepoint 95). The substitute character (unicode codepoint 26). Strings that include any other characters must be quoted. Characters that are not currently allowed in barewords, are not quote characters and do not currently serve any special purpose in FTS5 query expressions may at some point in the future be allowed in barewords or used to implement new query functionality. This means that queries that are currently syntax errors because they include such a character outside of a quoted string may be interpreted differently by some future version of FTS5. 3.2. FTS5 Phrases Each string in an fts5 query is parsed ("tokenized") by the tokenizer and a list of zero or more tokens , or terms, extracted. For example, the default tokenizer tokenizes the string "alpha beta gamma" to three separate tokens - "alpha", "beta" and "gamma" - in that order. FTS queries are made up of phrases . A phrase is an ordered list of one or more tokens. The tokens from each string in the query each make up a single phrase. Two phrases can be concatenated into a single large phrase using the "+" operator. For example, assuming the tokenizer module being used tokenizes the input "one.two.three" to three separate tokens, the following four queries all specify the same phrase: ... MATCH '"one two three"' ... MATCH 'one + two + three' ... MATCH '"one two" + three' ... MATCH 'one.two.three' A phrase matches a document if the document contains at least one sub-sequence of tokens that matches the sequence of tokens that make up the phrase. 3.3. FTS5 Prefix Queries If a "*" character follows a string within an FTS expression, then the final token ext ...
